Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to go for a strategy that worked
for us at Sprint track quite well.
It's offering adjacent services to potential clients.
Now it's a little bit different than say pitching your idea to someone who has already said they are
interested in getting development services done.
It's a little more nuanced than that.
I call it adjacent because you're going at people who might be interested in what you want but haven't
yet declared that they are interested.
We're going to go over a strategy that works for us and then I'm going to explain how you could adapt
this to your situation.
So let's go to the screencast Jason marketing is that typically if you're running a development firm
you're going to market directly to people who you think need development services.
So typically are going to look for people who have posted projects online people who are startups or
entrepreneurs who typically look for contractors.
Now another way of going at this is actually to think about people who have adjacent needs to that.
So a lot of people out there are not necessarily looking for a contractor but they need Development
Services So probably they're looking for employees perhaps they're looking for development employees
developers.
Now if you're not aware that is one of the most competitive job fields in the United States and in the
world and it probably will be for a very long time.
That is why salaries for programmers are so through the roof one of many reasons because it's such a
there's such a large amount of competition for their attention.
There are a lot of firms hiring are looking for programmers who are in need of web developers but there
are not a lot of programmers relative to how many people are looking.
So what happens a lot of the time is that people look and look and look for developers and they get
frustrated.
So what you can do and what we call adjacent marketing is you go after people who need the same thing
but they want it a different way.
And so what you can do is you can get in front of them and find a way of pitching your services and
using that as an avenue for converting sales and getting client.
So where would you go to look for someone who needs programming help but is more interested in an employee.
Now you can see who I brought up San Francisco Bay Craigslist Craigslist is probably the most ubiquitous
of all job posting boards.
Thats why I brought it up as an example where we could use Montsoreau dot com we could even use more
expensive ones like the ladders.
We can really use anywhere where you'd see jobs being posted or companies who are reaching out for programmers
and developers.
So in this case Craigslist is a great way of showing you how this theoretically would could work.
You use this in a lot of different ways.
I'm going to show you how we actually did it.
So Craigslist is where a lot of people post for depending on the area.
Twenty five dollars is seventy five dollars looking for specific jobs.
If IRA just do literally go over to jobs I could go to web info design.
You can also look for software design software QAD B-A.
A lot of people post in both of these so make sure to look at both sections.
We'll just go to a web info design for now.
So really what you can do is look for people who need something that you can do.
So a lot of these people are looking for designers if you offer design services this might be the case
but if you're not then maybe you need to look for something else.
So what you could do is just look for something that matches what your what you actually offer.
So let's say theoretically we do work with Magento and we do do front end development.
So what I could do is I could just click this company to see whether or not there's something on here
that they need that we cannot do.
And chances are we can probably do all of it or learn how to do some of it and that's quite literally
it.
Right.
So I found someone who needs work done that I can do.
They want it done a different way but they'd care enough to essentially show off who they are.
And now I know exactly who they are so quite literally all you'd have to do is just take the name and
then find their web site.
So in this case we'd look for creative circle
OK.
And you know it's not always as easy.
But in this case it was very very easy so right there creative circle.
Now every single company whose list this is going to list who they are.
No one's going to apply for a job.
They don't know who they're applying to.
Especially in such a competitive area.
So we found creative circle and then almost always they're going to have some information where you
can contact them.
So one way of contacting them is quite literally to use their contact forms like this or use any generic
e-mail they offer up as a way to contact them while on.
Now you know you've identified a group of people that need something you can offer.
Obviously they want it slightly differently but because programmers and developers are really competitive
really hard to get a lot of these people end up empty handed and frustrated which means they could very
much be open to your services.
So what we can quite literally do is just contact them directly.
Now I'm not going to give you directions on how you would contact them but you just need to essentially
be able to connect with them make them understand that you do offer similar services.
Make them understand that it's cheap fast or whatever your value proposition is.
And that's really about it.
If you wanted to take this one step farther or you're getting a lot of Web sites that do not list ways
of contacting them.
What you can do is just look up the people who work in the company now.
The vast majority of the people who are going to be posting for developers under the job boards those
people are going to have about OSS pages and they're probably going to list out someone who works for
the company.
And if you can't find someone who works for the company immediately you can always just use some other
search techniques.
You can always search for their name plus SEO or CTO or something like along those lines and tell essentially
you can figure out someone who works at this company.
OK.
So what you could just do is just said creative circle SEO now.
Be careful because there might be multiple people that have the same name and that's completely normal.
It looks like right here on LinkedIn LinkedIn has indexed for us who the CEO is.
OK so we can pull up his name we can go back and now here's a basic trick that you can use to try to
contact this person if you know their first name and their last name.
And you know the domain that their Web site is operating off of is a very good chance that you can contact
them.
So we know that it's creative circle dot com we know the guy's name is Bill.
I'm not going to try to pronounce his last name so what you can do as you can use what's called an email
per mutator Nomen include this in the resource section but this is just a standard marketing trick anybody
who's worked in marketing has probably use this technique.
We just tailor it specifically for our purposes.
And this is part of our campaign that we use to go after people who were looking for long term developers.
But in the meantime needed some stopgap development work.
So what I can do is just copy and paste their name
and it gave you the most common formats for names that you would be very much surprised but if I were
to e-mail every single one of these there's probably a 70 percent chance that I get the person's e-mail
address correctly.
Now that is because people are just they don't really think about their e-mail address they want to
think it's something that's really simple and they want to have authority so they're going to use their
top level domain which is whatever their web site is and then they're obviously going to use something
that's easy to remember or at least easy to recognize them and it almost always follows some one of
these 34 formats now.
No really.
All you have to do is just copy and paste and email all of them you pretty much immediately will have
33 of them bounce.
And one of them will be delivered and that one.
Like I said about 70 percent of the time will be delivered.
So that is one way that you can contact people who specifically have put themselves out there looking
for development services past that it is really up to your ability to put a lot of time and effort into
the strategy.
It's up to you to figure out a compelling message for them to get them to respond.
Keep in mind it's an unsolicited message.
So your response rates are often lower.
So it might be something that takes a little bit of effort but it's one of those things that with an
hour of time you can easily come away with four or five good leads that you're ready to process and
could potentially turn into clients that can make you lots of money.
It's something that you can do over and over and over again if you put a lot of time and effort into
crafting your message or finding exactly people who exactly fit the profile of what you offer.
Then you can really come away with a lot of long lasting clientele.
We have a lot of clientele who we've found through this matter and they love it because they were all
really struggling to fill their programmer roles.
And we kind of saved the day in terms of keeping their company from hitting a standstill and we pretty
much were able to just fit in right where they needed us.
Now if you also are a freelancer as an individual and you're trying to grow as a freelancer is also
a fantastic way of doing that you're saying hey I need someone needs this specific person but I can
do it on a contract basis for this long or in whatever way that you need it.
So this is a technique you can use it in the success really is going to depend on how well you understand
what you offer and how much time you put into it.
But think about adjacent marketing opportunities.
You offer development services with a lot of people need web sites but they're not going to ask for
it in the same exact way.
And a lot of them just haven't thought about whether or not they want to do contracting per say so try
to get your face try to get your website into the attention of other people who roughly need the same
thing.
You'll find out very quickly that this has a very high response rate and it's something that can generate
a lot of leads.
All right guys any questions posed in the group session if you have anything else you want me to cover
always make sure that you're posting that as well in the group discussion.
And I'm more than willing to make additional lectures otherwise I'll see in the next lecture.